#Exercise 17: Heap And Stack Memory Allocation

- Goal: To create a small program to manage a efficient database.

    - It would contain some knowledge to some file I/O

## Some quotes for the ex17

> ### allocating large data on the "heap"
> The whole point of this program is that I'm using malloc to ask the OS for a large amount of memory to work with when I create the Database.

- Null is 0 so boolean works
    
> In many of the checks I'm testing that a pointer is not NULL by simply doing `if(!ptr) die("fail!")` this is valid because `NULL` will evaluate to `false`. You could be explicit and say `if(ptr == NULL) die("fail!")` as well. On some rare systems `NULL` will be stored in the computer (represented) as something not `0`, but the C standard says you should still be able to write code as if it has a 0 value. From now on when I say "NULL is 0" I mean its value for anyone who is overly pedantic.


- Heap v.s Stack

    - If you get a block of memory from malloc, and have that pointer on the stack, then when the function exits, the pointer will get popped off and lost.
    
    - If you put too much data on the stack (like large structs and arrays) then you can cause a "stack overflow" and the program will abort. In this case, use the heap with malloc.
    
    - If you take a pointer to something on the stack, and then pass that or return it from your function, then the function receiving it will "segmentation fault" (segfault) because the actual data will get popped off and disappear. You'll be pointing at dead space.

## Question notes

> There are some functions may not be familiar with, 
> use `man 3 functionanme` to look it up in Linux man page

- fopen, fread, rewind, fflush, strncpy, atoi

- `fopen()`
    
    - option:

        - `w`:Truncate to zero length or create text file for writing.  The stream is positioned at the beginning of the file.

        - `r+` :Open for reading and writing.  The stream is positioned at the beginning of the file.

- `fwrite()`
    
    - Return value:  `fwrite()` function will return the number of objects been written.


- `rewind()`

    - The `rewind()` function sets the file position indicator for the stream pointed to by stream to the beginning of the file.  It is equivalent to:`(void)fseek(stream, 0L, SEEK_SET)` except that the error indicator for the stream is also cleared (seeclearerr(3)).

    - Since rewind() does not return a value, an application wishing to detect errors should clear errno, then call rewind(), and if errno is non-zero, assume an error has occurred.

- `strncpy()`
    
    - The stpncpy() and strncpy() functions copy at most n characters from src
     into dst.  If src is less than n characters long, the remainder of dst is
     filled with `\0' characters.  Otherwise, dst is not terminated.

- `atoi()`

    - convert string to integer (equivalent to `(int)strtol(str, (char **)NULL, 10);`) 

    - Example: 
        - `atoi("20")` will return `20` which is converted from string to integer.


