#Exercise 19: A Simple Object System

- goal: To build a simple game where killin Minotaur in a small little castle.

- We must have multiple files to complete this simple "software"

    - Need to learn more about the __C Pre-Processor or CPP__.

## How The Cpp Works

> How the CPP works is you give it one file, usually a .c file, and it processes various bits of text starting with the # (octothorpe) character. When it encounters one of these it performs a specific replacement on the text of the input file. It's main advantage though is it can include other files, and then augment its list of macros based on that file's contents.

## Macro in header file

### `object.h`

- `enum`

    - We define several enums here and we can declare it through: `Direction dir = NORTH;` 

- `#define NEW(T, N) Object_new(sizeof(T), T##Proto, N)`
    
    - `NEW(T, N)` in our code means `Object_new(sizeof(T), T##Proto, N)`

    - CPP(C pre-processor) will expand `NEW(Something, "Hello")`(this is which we called macro) to  `Object_new(sizeof(Something), SomethingProto, "Hello")`

### `object.c`

- `calloc()`

    -  The calloc() function contiguously allocates enough space for count objects that are size bytes of memory each and returns a pointer to the allocated memory.  The allocated memory is filled with bytes of value zero.


### Makefile

```
CFLAGS=-Wall -g

all: ex19

ex19: object.o

clean:
    rm -f ex19
```

> - When you build ex19, you need to also build object.o and include it in the build.

> - `make` can't see anything in the file for object.o, but it does see an `object.c` file, and it knows how to turn a `.c` into a `.o`, so it does that.

> - Once it has object.o built it then runs the correct compile command to build `ex19` from `ex19.c` and `object.o`.

----

##Game implementation

### `ex19.h`

- `NEW(Room,  "Hello")` 

    - Again, CPP will expand this macro into `Object_new(sizeof(Room), RoomProto, "Hello")`

        - Don't worry about `RoomProto` which we haven't seen till now, it'll be created in `ex19.c`

        - We assign a size of `Room` which is a struct.

        - Then we check the `Object_new()` in `object.c`

            - By using `calloc(1, size)`, we allocate a size of struct `Room`, and assign Room's `proto` to it, we don't even care about what `proto` is.
        
- Maybe you've been get confused by what `void *func(arg1, arg2)` is, it's the return type of func. We can also done by this way: `void* func(arg1, arg2)`

    - [Reference](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/8911230/c-asterisk-before-a-function-name)

